README.md, before:

> Note:
This is a template repository to kickstart the creation of a Python Vehicle App. Please create your own repository from this template repository by clicking the green button [`Use this template`](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-python-template).

# Vehicle App Development using Python

![CI Workflow](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-python-template/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg#branch=main)
[![License: Apache](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-yellow.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

This repository provides you with a complete development environment for your own Vehicle App based on the [Software defined vehicle platform](https://sdv.eclipse.org/) including a sample Vehicle App using the [Vehicle App Python SDK](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-python-sdk). The development environment uses the [Development Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/create-dev-container#:~:text=%20Create%20a%20development%20container%20%201%20Path,additional%20software%20in%20your%20dev%20container.%20More%20) feature of Visual Studio Code.

## Documentation
* [Velocitas Development Model](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/concepts/development_model/)
* [Vehicle App SDK Overview](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/concepts/development_model/vehicle_app_sdk/)

## Quickstart Tutorials
1. [Setup and Explore Development Environment](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/tutorials/quickstart/)
1. [Develop your own Vehicle Model](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/tutorials/vehicle_model_creation/)
1. [Develop your own Vehicle App](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/tutorials/vehicle_app_development/)

## Contribution
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-python-template/issues)
- [Mailing List](https://accounts.eclipse.org/mailing-list/velocitas-dev)
- [Contribution](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

add docs (#2)
* add docs

* remove hugo headers

* fix licenses and linter

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: dennismeister93 <dennis.meister@bosch.com>

* add note for mosquitto_pub

---------

Co-authored-by: dennismeister93 <dennis.meister@bosch.com>

README.md, after:

The [**seat adjuster**](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/docs/about/use_cases/seat_adjuster/) is an example to showcase how to create a vehicle application which senses and actuates signals in the vehicle
for Eclipse Leda with help of Eclipse Velocitas and Eclipse Kuksa.

If you are new to the concepts around Eclipse SDV and the mentioned projects
we recommend to read the [SDV Tutorial](https://eclipse-leda.github.io/leda/docs/general-usage/sdv-introduction/) first.

## Description

The idea of the seat adjuster application is to have a custom application to move the driver seat to positions defined
in a driver profile hosted by a third-party web service.

![Seat Adjuster Use Case](./seatadjuster.png)

The setup contains the following components:

- Cloud or mobile trigger: not part of the Leda image, but we simulate it by issuing MQTT messages
- **Seat Adjuster** : Developed with Eclipse Velocitas to be deployed by user
- Eclipse Kuksa.val - **KUKSA Databroker** (pre-installed with Eclipse Leda)
- **Seat Service**: Example provider for Eclipse Kuksa.VAL (pre-installed with Eclipse Leda)
- Seat ECU and the separate Seat Motor hardware can be emulated using a virtual CAN-Bus, which is beyond the scope of this guide.

In the following paragraphs, we next introduce the [architecture and the assumed data flow](architecture-seat-adjuster)
before we explain the [development](develop-seat-adjuster) and [deployment](deploy-seat-adjuster) steps.
If you are more interested in the general development steps, you may directly jump to the [develop seat adjuster](develop-seat-adjuster).
